# 2019-09-19

## Concepts

- Xcode storyboards
- Connecting UI objects to Swift code
- UI object attributes

## Warmup

- Create a new single view iOS application in Xcode.
- Add a label to the storyboard.
- Connect the label to the controller code file.
- In the `viewDidLoad` function in the controller, add a line of code to set the label's text to say, "Application launched!"

## TODO

- Warmup. See above.
- Make a counting app.
  - The app should do the following:
    - Screen contains a button and a label.
    - The label says how many times the button has been pressed.
    - Every time the button is pressed, the label updates.
  - Things to keep in mind:
    - Recall how to connect a UI element (such as a label) to the controller so you can access it in your code.
    - Recall how to connect an interaction with a UI element (such as touch up inside on a button) to the controller so you can set what happens when you interact with the object.
    - Once you connect a UI element or an interaction to your code, changing the name of the reference in the code will cause the connection to break! It is possible to do this, but it requires going deeper into the code.
  - Extension:
    - Try running your application on different device simulators, such as an iPad. What does that do to the layout of your elements in the storyboard?
    - Look up how to use constraints to make your layout adapt to the size of your device's screen.
- Begin creating an app that asks the user for their age, then says what year they were born.
  - It is likely that you will not finish this in class. Completing the app is your homework, due Tuesday.
  - The app should do the following.
    - Screen contains:
      - A way to input the user's age. (A text field is probably easiest, but other options exist.)
      - A button to ask for the birth year.
      - A switch if they've already had their birthday this year.
      - A label to display their birth year.
    - If the user does not enter a valid number for their age, the app should not crash, and the label should display an appropriate message.

## Additional Notes

- You may want to refer back to the final state of `helloApp` from yesterday's class, preserved in the [helloApp_2019-09-18](https://github.com/rileyjohngibbs/CASComSci_2019-2020/tree/helloApp_2019-09-18) branch of this repo.
- Many of the concepts and skills covered so far are included in the ["Start Developing iOS Apps"](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/referencelibrary/GettingStarted/DevelopiOSAppsSwift/index.html) tutorial. You might find it helpful.
