# 2019-09-11

Still out today. Back on 2019-09-13 (Friday).

## Concepts

- Functions

## TODO

- Peruse the Swift Language Guide's page on [functions](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/Functions.html). You don't have to read the whole thing--some of it contains some very difficult concepts--but make sure you check out the sections [Defining and Calling Functions](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/Functions.html#ID159), [Function Argument Labels and Parameter Names](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/Functions.html#ID166) and [Function Types](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/Functions.html#ID174).
- In a document called `functions.txt`, answer the following questions:
  1. What keyword does Swift use to mark the definition of a function? (Think like `def` in Python and `function` in JavaScript.)
  2. How do you declare the type of value that a function returns?
  3. How could you use [argument labels](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/Functions.html#ID166) to help clean up your code or make it more readable?
- In a Swift playground, write the following functions:
  1. A function called `square` that has one `Int` parameter and returns that parameter multiplied by itself.
  2. A function called `five` that takes no parameters and returns the `5` (as an `Int`).
  3. A function called `fullName` that takes takes a first name and a last name as two separate strings, and returns a single string of the full name. (E.g. `fullName(first: "Riley", last: "Gibbs")` should return `"Riley Gibbs"`.)
  4. A function called `shout` that takes a single `String`, and doesn't return anything, but instead prints the input string with an exclamation mark (`!`) at the end of it.
  5. A function called `numberName` that:
      - When given a single digit number, returns a `String` of that number's name. For example, `numberName(num: 7)` should return `"seven"`.
      - When given any other number, returns `nil`. For example, `numberName(num: 15)` should return `nil`.
- Submit `functions.txt` and your playground code in the same manner as you did for your work on optionals yesterday. Github is preferred--again, in a dedicated directory with just these two files--and file submission is a fall-back option.
