# 2019-12-11

Time to pull in data from SWAPI! Today's goal will be to fetch data from SWAPI with Swift. We'll still need what we learned about parsing with `JSONSerialization` and downcasting to accomplish this.

We're going to try to be a little more responsible with our code, because there's a lot more that's out of our control when we're developing against a web API. What if your network goes down? What if the website isn't working? What if the maintainers of that external API suddenly changed the way the API works and you didn't update your code yet?

If time permits, we'll introduce the idea of asynchronous programming, in which our application doesn't completely halt all other functioning while we wait for SWAPI to respond to us.

## Concepts

- Using `URL(string:)` to create URLs.
- Fetching data with `Data(contentsOf:)`.
- Parsing the data with `JSONSerialization.jsonObject(with:options:)` and downcasting.

## Homework

Build an app that uses SWAPI data to tell us about Star Wars movies.

- Display one piece of information about one film of your choice.
  - This information must come from SWAPI, and should not be data in your app.
- Allow the user to select different films (at least three) to display information for.
- Display more information about the films, fetched from SWAPI.

## TODO

- Build a very simple app.
  - Features:
    - Pressing a button displays the name of a character fetched from SWAPI.
    - Pressing a different button fetches a different character and displays their name instead.
  - Build it unsafely first, with lots of bangs:
  
    ```swift
    @IBAction func pressOne(_ sender: UIButton) {
        let url: URL = URL(string: "https://swapi.co/api/people/1/")!
        let responseData: Data = try! Data(contentsOf: url)
        let json: Any = try! JSONSerialization.jsonObject(with: responseData, options: [])
        let dictionary: [String: Any] = json as! [String: Any]
        let name: String = dictionary["name"] as! String
        nameLabel.text = name
    }
    ```

- What could go wrong?
  - How status codes indicate success or failure of a network call.
  - Use `curl -i [url]` to see the status codes of good and bad calls.
    - `curl -i "https://swapi.co/api/people/1/"`
    - `curl -i "https://swapi.co/api/people/0/"`
    - `curl -i "https://swapi.co/api/people/1"`
- Build it more safely.
  - Unwrap optionals, and `return` if something is `nil`.
- Synchronous data fetching:
  - Freezes the application's execution. Not ideal.
  - Only allows fetching one URL's data at a time.
- Asycnchronous data fetching:
  - Allows continued execution of the app.
  - Uses tasks with `URLSession.shared.dataTask(with:)` and closures.
