# 2019-11-06

## Concepts

- `UITableViewController`
- `prepare` method

## TODO

- Organize the [steps](https://github.com/rileyjohngibbs/CASComSci_2019-2020/blob/9c54e0dbf7dd28bf96bf03900d39dd23d6164ab0/scratch_and_notes/2019-11-06_multiViewAppChecklist.md) from last class into the features of a generic table view controller application.
  - Submit this on the course website.
- Complete the dictionary application begun previously.
- Begin to build a clone of the Notes application.
  - The data displayed in the table and the second controller should be notes.
  - This will have two extra features on top of the generic features:
    - You should be able to add a new note.
    - You should be able to edit an existing note.

## Notes

- Generic Table View Controller application features
  - Application shows a table view
  - Table is populated with data
  - Clicking a cell in the table goes to a new view
  - The new view displays data from the clicked cell
- Notes App Clone
  - There are several `tableView` methods defined in the `UITableViewController`.
    - How can they be told apart when they share a name?
    - What do they each do?
  - Transitions between table view and note view.
    - How many ways are there to transition from the table view to the note view? How are they defined?
    - How many ways are there to transition from the note view to the table view? How are they defined?
  - The model.
    - What is the `Note` class? What does it store for us?
    - Where is the list of notes being stored in the model (i.e. what is the name of the variable/constant)?
  - Interactions between the view and the model in the controller.
    - Where is the identifier for the table view's prototype cell used in the code?
    - What happens when a table cell is deleted? Where is that behavior defined?
    - What user action prompts the creation of a new `Note`? Where is that behavior defined?
    - What user action prompts the update of a note?
