# 2019-09-23

Sorry I have to miss class again today, students. I would absolutely be there if I could.

I want you to spend the time in class today thinking up your own idea for a (relatively simple) iOS application, and then creating a storyboard (without any code attached) that you could potentially use for that application.

Additionally, you still have the assignment from last class of a birthyear calculator that is due tomorrow. That assignment is posted on the course website, ready for submissions if you've finished it already (either a link to a folder in your Github repo or a zipped project is acceptable, the former being preferred). Otherwise, work on it when you're done with today's work, and we'll spend a little bit of time on it in class tomorrow if you're stuck.

## Concepts

- Xcode iOS storyboard

## TODO

- Come up with an idea for an iOS application that requires only a single storyboard to build. Or use one of these:
  - An app that encodes a message using a Vigenere cipher, asking the user for the plaintext message and the cipher key.
  - An app to roll each of the polyhedral dice used in tabletop RPGs.
  - An app that solves quadratic equations in standard form.
- Sketch out what you think that application's view (its storyboard) should look like. What elements need to be on the screen in order for the app to accomplish its goal(s)?
- Create an iOS app in Xcode and build _just the storyboard_ for this app.
  - Don't worry about writing any code.
  - Don't even worry about creating outlets or actions for any of the storyboard elements.
  - You don't need to submit this, but you need to have it saved and ready to go for class tomorrow (Tuesday).
- If you finish creating the storyboard, and you haven't finished the birthyear calculator, do that.
