# 2019-12-04

We're continuing with our journey into using JSON data in our applications. Specifically, JSON data that we get through web APIs, like [SWAPI](https://swapi.co/). Of course, while our first target API is SWAPI, there are plenty of [other open APIs](https://rapidapi.com/collection/list-of-free-apis) out there that you could build an app for, and that's exactly what you'll eventually do.

Fetching data from a URL and deserializing JSON data are each a bit complicated on their own, so we're going to take them one at a time. We'll start today with deserializing JSON data that we define ourselves (something like [this playground](https://github.com/rileyjohngibbs/CASComSci_2019-2020/tree/c746f3a235403ec87c77d397b55b3ec0aa1b19a2/ParseJSON.playground)). Next time we'll fetch data from a URL. Finally, we'll put the two together.

One final note: The way that we're parsing the JSON is unsafe, meaning that if the JSON is improperly formatted, our app could crash. If time permits, we'll refactor it with `guard` and `if let` statements.

## Concepts

- JSON is a language agnostic data format supported by many programming languages.
- JSON is composed of objects, arrays, strings, numbers, and booleans.
- Deserializing JSON data in Swift requires defining the shape of that data.

## TODO

- Define our own JSON object about ourselves.
- Review dictionary types in Swift.
  - Using `Any` type to allow for different types of values in a dictionary or array.
  - Casting (not converting) values to different types.
- Decode JSON data in Swift.
  - Convert to `Data` type.
  - Decode using `JSONSerialization.jsonObject(with:options:)` function.
  - Cast object and each nested value in the object.
- Print the data in a nice human-readable string.

## Homework

Build an application that uses a JSON file bundled in your application as a source for its data. Use [this incomplete app](https://github.com/rileyjohngibbs/CASComSci_2019-2020/tree/c746f3a235403ec87c77d397b55b3ec0aa1b19a2/jsonDecodeApp) as a starting point.
