# 2019-09-18

## Concepts

- Xcode storyboards
- Connecting UI objects to Swift code
- UI object attributes

## Warmup

Write down your best working definition for each of these concepts. Do this on your own for now.

- `nil`
- Function parameters
- Conditional statement

## TODO

- [x] Run the `helloApp` iOS app in Xcode using Simulator.
  - [x] Review the structure of an iOS app's files.
  - [x] Read the Swift code in the Controller.
  - [x] Look through the structure of the Storyboard.
- [x] Modify the `helloApp` iOS app code.
  - [x] Change the greeting message.
  - [x] Add a switch to change it to a goodbye message.
- [ ] Make a counting app.
  - Screen contains a button and a label.
  - The label says how many times the button has been pressed.
  - Every time the button is pressed, the label updates.
- [ ] Begin creating an app that asks the user for their age, then says what year they were born.
  - Screen contains:
    - A way to input the user's age. (A text field is probably easiest, but other options exist.)
    - A button to ask for the birth year.
    - A switch if they've already had their birthday this year.
    - A label to display their birth year.
  - If the user does not enter a valid number for their age, the app should not crash, and the label should display an appropriate message.

## Notes

- The changes we made in class are preserved on the [helloApp_2019-09-18](https://github.com/rileyjohngibbs/CASComSci_2019-2020/tree/helloApp_2019-09-18) branch of this repo.
- If you want to save your own changes locally, you can copy your `helloApp` folder into your own git repository. You cannot modify this Github repo right now, since you are not set as a collaborator on the repo.
