# 2020-02-07

## Concepts

- Adding actions to `UIButton` instances dynamically.
  - Using the `@objc` decorator.
  - Using `#selector` to find `@objc`-decorated methods.
- Using `UIScrollView`.

## Homework assignments

- Add an additional `UIViewController` to [this sample application](https://github.com/rileyjohngibbs/CASComSci_2019-2020/tree/master/scratch_and_notes/DynamicViews). **Due Tuesday, February 11.**
  - The new view controller should generate some `UIView` elements other than `UILabel` dynamically, such as `UIButton` or `UIImageView`.
  - Those elements should each do something, like show an image. You may need to do some research for this.
- Create a number-guessing application. **Due Wenesday, February 19.**
  - The user should be able to select the range of numbers to guess from. One of these numbers is randomly selected to be the secret number.
  - The user should be able to guess whether a number is the secret number. If they are incorrect, they should be told whether they were too high or too low.
  - The user should be able to guess as many times as they want until they guess the secret number.

## TODO

- Attach functions to button dynamically.
  - Create a function that creates an alert in an iOS application.
    - Call that function in `viewDidLoad` to make sure it works.
  - Add a button dynamically to the view and select the above function as its target action.
- Embed items in `UIScrollView`.
  - Create a vertical stack view.
  - Write a function that creates a `UIButton`, sets its height, and adds it into the vertical stack view.
  - Attach that function to a button in the vertical stack view.
  - Attach that function to each new button that gets created by that same function.
  - Things get tight... can we embed in a scroll view instead?
