# 2020-03-09

## Concepts

- `ARSCNView` and `ARSCNViewDelegate`
- `SCNScene`
- `ARConfiguration`/`ARImageTrackingConfiguration`
- `ARReferenceImage`
- `ARAnchor`/`ARImageAnchor`
- `SCNNode`
- `SCNPlane`

## Resources

- Sample [AR models](https://developer.apple.com/augmented-reality/quick-look/) from Apple

## Steps to create a basic augmented reality app

**Goal: Create an app that redacts an image on your phone when it sees it in the world.**

### Get an inactive `SCNScene` displayed in your app

- Create a new project called `FirstARApp`.
- In the project's General settings, scroll down to "Frameworks, Libraries, and Embedded Content," and add `ARKit.framework`.
- Add a "Privacy - Camera Usage Description" entry in `Info.plist`.
- Place an ARKit SceneKit View (`ARSCNView`) in the main View Controller in the storyboard. Set the constraints to fill the View Controller.
- Add `import SceneKit` and `import ARKit` to the top of the `ViewController.swift` file, under `import UIKit`.
  - Why do we need to do this? What happens if we don't?
- Create an outlet from the ARKit SceneKit View into `ViewController.swift`. Call it `sceneView`.
- Declare the `ViewController` to be a `ARSCNViewDelegate` by placing this class name after `UIViewController` in the list of inheritances for `ViewController`.
  - What does this tell the compiler about `ViewController`?
  - Why is this necessary? What does it allow us to do?
- In the `viewDidLoad` function, assign `self` as the `.delegate` for `sceneView`.
  - What does `self` refer to in this context?
  - What does this do?
- Add a new `SceneKit Catalog` in the `FirstARApp` directory. Call it `arresources`; Xcode will append `scnassets` to the name for you, which you should keep.
- Add a new file in `arresources.scnassets` and call it `blank.scn`.
  - Why doesn't Xcode ask us what kind of file we want to add here?
- Create a new `SCNScene` in `viewDidLoad` using the `SCNScene(named:)` initializer. Give it the name of the blank SceneKit Scene File: `arresources.scnassets/blank.scn`. Call it `scene`.
  ```swift
  let scene = SCNScene(named: "arresources.scnassets/blank.scn")
  ```
- Set the `.scene` property of `sceneView` to the new `SCNScene`.
  ```swift
  sceneView.scene = scene
  ```
  - What's the difference between a Scene and a Scene View?
  - How is a `UIImageView` like an `ARSCNView`?

*Run the app to make sure it doesn't crash as it tries to display the `SCNScene`. The Scene will be black, because it's not active yet.*

### Start and pause the scene's session

- Define an override for `viewWillAppear`, and place the following inside.
  - Call the super definition of `viewWillAppear`.
    ```swift
    super.viewWillAppear(animated)
    ```
  - Create an instance of `ARImageTrackingConfiguration`.
    - What other subclasses of `ARConfiguration` are there?
  - Call `sceneView.session.run(_:)` and pass it the configuration you just created.
    - Why not create the configure and run it in `viewDidLoad`?
- Define an override for `viewWillDisappear`, and place the following inside.
  - Call the super definition of `viewWillDisappear`.
  - Call `sceneView.session.pause()`.
    - Why would we want to pause the session?

*Run the app again to make sure the `SCNScene` now shows the camera's view. It still doesn't do anything else.*

### Look for an image in the world

- Import the image you want to track into your project.
	- In `Assets.xcassets` list, click the `+` button and select "New AR Resource Group." Name it `TargetImages`.
	- Find a picture of Octocat from Github and add it to the AR Resource Group you just created. You can use [this one](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rileyjohngibbs/CASComSci_2019-2020/master/scratch_and_notes/2020-03-09%20FirstARApp/FirstARApp/octocat.png), originally downloaded from [here](https://www.pngitem.com/middle/hmRwxiR_github-octocat-hd-png-download/), if you like.
	- In the attributes inspector (the carrot) for the Octocat, set a width for the image.
	  - It won't really matter in this case, since we're just trying to find it in the world; the software will automatically scale the image. But the dimensions have to be non-zero.
- Create a helper function with signature `setTrackingImages(_ groupName: String, for configuration: ARImageTrackingConfiguration)`.
  - Get the images from your assets folder with `ARReferenceImage.referenceImages(inGroupNamed:bundle:)`. Use `.main` as your bundle.
    - Why does this function return an optional?
    - What is the best way to unwrap this optional?
  - Assign the reference images set to `configuration.trackingImages`.
    - If this configuration already had images being tracked, would this function add to that list, or replace it?
  - Set `configuration.maximumNumberOfTrackedImages` to `3`.
- Call `setTrackingImages(_:for:)` inside of `viewDidLoad` and give it the name of your AR Resource Group (which should be `"TargetImages"` if you're following along with these instructions).
- Create a function: `renderer(_ renderer: SCNSceneRenderer, nodeFor anchor: ARAnchor) -> SCNNode?`.
  - For now, just print `"Image found"`, create an `SCNNode`, and return that node.

*Run the app and point your camera at the image on your computer monitor. Check Xcode's console to make sure it's printing out the message `"Image Found"` to confirm that we are now successfully tracking this image.*

### Add a virtual object on the image.

- Create a helper function with signature `overlayRedaction(on node: SCNNode, fromAnchor anchor: ARImageAnchor)`.
  ```swift
  func overlayRedaction(on node: SCNNode, fromAnchor anchor: ARImageAnchor) {
    let plane = SCNPlane(width: anchor.referenceImage.physicalSize.width, height: anchor.referenceImage.physicalSize.height)
    plane.firstMaterial?.diffuse.contents = UIColor(white: 0.0, alpha: 1.0)
    let planeNode = SCNNode(geometry: plane)
    planeNode.eulerAngles.x = -.pi / 2
    node.addChildNode(planeNode)
  }
  ```
  - How is the size of this plane being determined?
  - What color is the plane going to be?
  - What does the `eulerAngles` line of code do?
    - What happens if you change the value to something else, like `-.pi / 4`?
    - What happens if you remove the line of code altogether?
- Use `overlayRedaction` in `renderer` to add the redaction to the tracked image.
  - Downcast `anchor` to `ARImageAnchor`.
    - How might you handle it in case `anchor` is not actually an `ARImageAnchor`?
  - Call `overlayRedaction` with your `SCNNode` and downcast `ARImageAnchor`.

*Run the app and point the camera at the image on your computer again. It should show a black rectangle over the image.*