# 2020-02-03

Some quick administrative stuff first, then we'll get into some look at hard coding, its drawbacks, and how we can get rid of it when we need to.

## That administrative stuff first

### No Google Docs for assignments

Unless specifically told otherwise, don't submit links to Google Docs files for this class. Instead, use `.txt` or `.md` files in your Github repo. This is because too often the Google Docs files are not shared with me, which can delay grading until permission is granted. Besides which, the only advantage gained from Docs over Github files is some formatting, which I frankly don't care much about anyway.

### .gitignore

If your Github repo doesn't already have one, add a `.gitignore` file in the repo's root directory. (Don't forget the `.` at the beginning of the file name.) In that file, include the following lines:

```
.DS_Store
xcuserdata/
*.xcscmblueprint
*.xccheckout
*.hmap
*.ipa
*.dSYM.zip
*.dSYM
timeline.xctimeline
playground.xcworkspace
.build/
Carthage/Build/
Dependencies/
.accio/
fastlane/report.xml
fastlane/Preview.html
fastlane/screenshots/**/*.png
fastlane/test_output
iOSInjectionProject/
```

Most of these lines came from [here](https://github.com/github/gitignore/blob/master/Swift.gitignore) and won't be necessary for some or all of our work in this course, but they'll be good to have anyway. This file will tell Git not to track certain files.

## Concepts

- The pros and cons of hard coding.
- Removing hard coding from an application.

## TODO

- Look at example of hard coding.
  - Is this code easy to read?
  - Is this code "simple"?
- Consider how the code will change as the data changes.
  - What happens if we add new values?
  - How easy is it to change the data in the application?
  - What if we want the user to be able to enter their own data?
- Strategize ways to change the application to remove the hard coding.
  - What benefits does this provide?
  - Is it worth the extra work to do it this way?
