# 2020-02-27

## Concepts

- Taking photos with `UIImagePickerController`.
- Using dynamic UIs to display variable numbers of photos.

## Assignments

- Quiz tomorrow on dynamic UI building.
  - Five questions
  - Ten minutes
  - All multiple choice
- `PhotoGallery` app, due Tuesday by the start of class.

## TODO

- Review concepts of dynamic UI building.
  - Some of this will be on the quiz tomorrow.
- Review steps to taking a photo and placing it in a single `UIImageView` element.
  - Check out the code from [SimplePhotoTaker](https://github.com/rileyjohngibbs/CASComSci_2019-2020/blob/46297f7c90f4e96f8f545e3960a0c4b02f8dcd71/scratch_and_notes/2020-02-24%20SimplePhotoTaker/SimplePhotoTaker/ViewController.swift) if you're stuck.
- Start building `PhotoGallery` app.
  - Features: Implement at least three of these.
    - User should be able to take as many photos as they like.
    - User should be able to view all of the photos they've taken.
    - User should be able to provide and read descriptions for each photo.
    - User should be able to see all photos at their proper size (i.e. not shrunk to fit all on the same screen).
    - User should be able to save and reload all of their photos they've taken to file.
  - Some possible strategies to help. (Read this as a menu of options, not that you should do all of them.)
    - Use a second view controller for viewing the photos one at a time, and a `UIPickerView` or `UITableView` to select them.
    - Display images in a `UIStackView` inside a `UIScrollView`.
    - Create a class that holds a `UIImage` for the photo and a `String` for the description of that photo.
    - Use `UIImage.jpegData(compressionQuality:)` and `Data.write(to:)` to save images. Check [this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/46361029) and [this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/32837120) to get started.